>> Bianca: We had two tasks.
We were writing a function that takes n,
multiplies n times 10.
Here is our solution for that, n times 10.
Our second one was building on that first
one where we're going to use an object
to cache the results of
our times 10 function.
So how do we do that?
So we check if n is in cache.
If it is, I have a handy console.log
just for reference here.
We're gonna just return that value.
If not, we're going to say
that we're calculating the results.
>> Bianca: And
we're gonna calculate it here, right?
This is our calculation.
We're calling our function
here versus here,
we're just looking it up in our cache.
If it's not already in our cache
we're gonna call that function, and
we're going to save the results
of that into our cache.
And this is important.
We're also gonna return that result so
that when we're interacting with this,
it's actually returning 90
every time because that's actually
what we're interested in.
When we're calling this method and
we're consuming the method,
we want to get the result.
So don't forget to return that result.
So,
>> Bianca: The first time we call it with
9, it's gonna be calculated.
The second time it's gonna
hit this condition and
it's just gonna do a property
lookup in our cache.
Any questions about this solution?
>> Speaker 2: So
there's something that's still not
quite clicking with this whole.
So I understand the caches and
the object, right?
So when we did the first function,
it's something in the background
that's happening,
hey, I've calculated this, right?
>> Bianca: Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 2: And it's saved somewhere
like in this abstract object.
>> Bianca: Well,
it's happening right here.
>> Speaker 2: Because how do we, I guess,
tie the two together?
When we say on line 15, if n is in cache,
how does that function even knows about
cache, because it's just
a variable before it?
I know it's kind of a bridge, but
I don't know how the two intersect.
>> Bianca: Got it.
So in this example, we're using this
global cache that lives in a parent scope,
and functions can reach up into
the parent scope, mutate data.
It's not a best practice,
but it's possible and
we're gonna make it better
in the next exercise.
So I think the thing that's a little
bit confusing to people is,
instead of starting at the first if
condition, let's start at the else, okay?
So we're gonna call memo times 10 with 9.
So memo times 10.
Whenever we call a function, we're gonna
hop into that body of the function.
n is nine.
And n is not in cache, right?
Cache is empty at this point.
It's initialized as empty.
So we run into this else.
The first thing that we're gonna do is
we're gonna calculate times 10 of n
which is 90.
We're gonna save that n to results.
And here's where the magic happens.
We're saving cache of n so
cache of 9 equals 90, right?
Before we were saving our values
to true because we were just
checking if we had seen it.
In this case, we are saving
the results of that calculation.
So we're doing the calculation,
n times 10 is 90, so our result is 90.
And we're saving that n to cache of n.
What is n again?
9.
So and then we're returning
the result which is 90,
the thing that we're actually interested
in as a consumer of this function.
Okay, so that's the first time.
Let's go to the second time and
then I'll take your question.
I think this might answer your question.
The second time n is 9,
and then we're gonna say,
if n is in cache, n isn't,
so n is 9, is in cache and
what is the value that is saved?
>> Speaker 2: 90.
>> Bianca: 90, so
in this cache we have something
that looks like 9, 90.
So when we look up 9, it exists, great.
And then we just return a cache of n,
which is 9.
And it's gonna return
the value associated with 9,
which is 90.
>> Bianca: Questions?
>> Speaker 2: Why are we declaring cache
as outside of the scope of
memo times ten function?
>> Bianca: Because the second time that we
call it,
we just need to retain access to it.
If we initialized it here in
the way that this is written,
every time we recall memo wise, it's
gonna read calculate the cache as empty.
So we need to save it somewhere where
it's not gonna get really overwritten
because we're gonna initialize it as
empty, and then we're gonna write to it.
And the next time we call it,
we execute the body of the function.
We're gonna execute
the body of the function,
I'm just gonna rewrite
that cache to be empty.
But that's a really good question,
all right.
>> Speaker 3: Whenever pushing to
the cache,
is that what cache with n equals result,
is that what it's essentially doing?
>> Bianca: Yeah, yeah,
that's exactly what it's doing.
So it's saying okay, cache,
create a property called 9, and
save the value 90.
>> Speaker 3: Okay.
>> Bianca: Mm-hm.
>> Bianca: And the reason that we're using
the bracket notation instead of cache.in,
because in is a variable name.
And so when you were gonna save a property
to an object, that's a variable name,
you need to put it inside the brackets.
And it's going to evaluate what is n,
and the environment is gonna say n is 9.
Just like,
we're gonna evaluate what is the result?
The environment's gonna say
the result is 90 in this case.